--- 
layout: page 
title : Privacy Statement
permalink: /privacy.html
hide: true
---

### General Information
This website is committed to safeguarding the privacy of our visitors. This Privacy Statement outlines the types of information we collect and how we use that information.

### Google Analytics
We employ Google Analytics, a web analysis service provided by Google Inc. ("Google"), to better understand your use of our website. Google Analytics collects information such as how often users visit the site, what pages they visit, and what other sites they used prior to coming to this website. Google uses the data collected to track and examine the use of the website, to prepare reports on its activities, and to share them with other Google services.

Google may use the data collected to contextualize and personalize the ads of its own advertising network. The data collected is anonymized and does not identify individual users.

To gather this information, Google Analytics uses cookies. Cookies are small text files that are stored on your computer. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States.

### Opting Out
You have the option to prevent Google Analytics from recognizing you when you return to our site by disabling cookies on your browser. To opt-out of Analytics for the web, visit the Google Analytics opt-out page and install the add-on for your browser.

### Data Use and Sharing
We do not share the information collected through Google Analytics with third parties, except as required by law or in specific cases where explicit consent has been obtained.

### Updates to This Statement
This Privacy Statement may be updated periodically to reflect changes in our practices or for other operational, legal, or regulatory reasons.